Important Notes

How To Make Your Decoy Offer. Offer fewer components, older models, or fewer personalized versions of your premium offer. Also, remove any guarantees. Your Attraction Offer only has to get leads to engage. Nothing more.

Advertise Benefits Not The Features. We want to sell them on the dream outcome. We advertise a transformation in 21 days, not workouts and meal plans. Leads get specific product details in the sales presentation, not in the advertising! Private jets and rowboats can both get you to an exotic island, but the premium option is certainly more enjoyable.

You Can Advertise Discounts in Four Ways. Let’s say you had a yearlong thing that costs $100 per month. If you wanted to let them pay $900
for the year, you could say:
1. Percentage Off: 25% off
2. Absolute Amount: $300 off
3. Free Portion: 3 Months Free
4. The Total Package: One Year For $900 ($1,200)
They all mean the same thing. It’s worth testing to see which one converts better in your market.

Make The Contrast Huge. The value of the premium option comes from huge differences with the decoy option. So make the decoy option as basic as reasonable. Then make the premium option as awesome as possible. The bigger the contrast, the better the deal, and the more customers will take it.

Discount Offers Have Higher Show-Up Rates Than Free Offers. In my experience, If you run a Free Attraction offer, you’ll get more leads. If you run a Discount Offer, you’ll get fewer leads, but a higher percentage will show up. So if you have low show-up rates for appointments, try a Discount Offer instead. This is especially important for businesses where you have a high cost of someone not showing up (think doctors, lawyers, dentists, etc).

If Possible, Present The Premium Offer First. In a perfect world, they take the premium offer immediately. The decoy offer stays in your back pocket. If they come in specifically asking for the decoy option up front…

Get Them To Give You Permission To Sell Them. If they ask to hear about your decoy, you are legally required to present it, or you prefer to present it first, here’s how I like to do it:
Ask them a simple question: “Are you here for free stuff or lasting results?”
And as soon as they say “results,” which most people do, skip to your premium offer.
If they say “free stuff,” present the decoy offer then immediately contrast it with your premium offer. Then only after presenting both, ask them “which do you think will get you to your goal faster?” or “which would you prefer: XXX less valuable benefit or YYY more valuable benefit 1, 2, 3…?” At this point, they’ll have to say the premium offer. Then you can move forward in the sale mutually agreeing it’s the best thing for them.

When Making Your Premium Offer, Get Excited About It. Present it as superior to the decoy offer, because it is. And, assuming it is, how it fits the customer better. Your excitement motivates people to take the options that will give them the most value.
From a selling perspective, you want to talk to the lead as if you already know they will accept your offer. Many salespeople refer to this as an “assumed close.” You operate from a position of: This is what everyone does. This is just a formality. Let me get your ID and credit card so you can get your value. No hype. Just friendly disposition. Almost bored over how regularly people buy.
Surprise Benefit (Optional). To take this a step further, if someone takes the decoy option, you can choose to surprise them with a few low-/zero-cost features from your premium offer. Just say something like “hey, I’m gonna throw this in, even though it’s part of our premium offer just because I want you to get great results.” This builds goodwill, over delivers, and increases the chance they take your upsells later. Remember—they’re still leads!